So now that we have learned about several estimating models,
just what is an estimate?
What value do we put on a unit of work or a task?
Let's explore estimating by ideal time.
Units of measure.
Based on your estimate's iteration level,
the following units of measure are recommended.
High level, first iteration,
you could use weeks or months as the unit of measure.
This is your first cut, rough cut,
and it helps give management just a high level,
how much work is this going to take?
They may ask you to go back again and do another iteration.
Second iteration, I'd recommend coming back in days.
A little more granularity and you've done a little more analysis and research.
If management asks you again hey, go a little deeper,
I want a little more granularity once again,
then I'd jump to hours.
I prefer hours almost all the time.
If you have good models and good templates for reuse,
hours is a good place to be.
I like that granularity a lot.
Typically this applies to new projects,
but you may have a bug fix or something like that.
And those units of work I would recommend would be in hours, probably always.
Because that's usually a smaller amount of work,
it's hot, it's important, it's a production fix.
So I think it's the best granularity of quality
estimates in the production world.
Okay, so do you think you can estimate the length of a football game?
Let's see if you can.
How long is a football game?
Can you estimate how long is a Super Bowl football game?
Give it a shot.
60 minutes?
Seems reasonable.
I've never seen a game in an hour.
Two hours, hmm, probably not enough time.
Three to four hours?
Maybe a little closer.
Now why would we get a multitude of estimates?
It's because of assumptions.
Each of us may have a different opinion.
Ask any software engineer how long a project will
take and if you ask 10 engineers, you're going to get 10 different answers.
That's not necessarily bad, in fact it's actually good.
If, you understand the assumptions behind what drives their estimates.
What are some other reasons why our estimates might vary?
Commercials?
Lots of TV commercials.
Half time length?
Maybe there's a big-name star singing for that evening.
Injuries, may cause delays as well.
Penalties, always too many of those.
Maybe even a weather delay.
How about even some more commercials?
So, any guesses out there?
Some of you probably said 60 minutes, others three to four hours.
Those that said 60 minutes, are right on the money.
For the first step in making our estimate,
is to come up with ideal time,
because 60 minutes is the ideal time in a perfect world.
Now let's spend a moment here to really define ideal and elapsed time.
Ideal time,
the amount of time that something would take to do in the perfect world,
no distractions or other extraneous activities.
It's important to understand that.
No assumptions, no sick time, anything like that.
It's going to take me, heads down, eight hours to do a task.
Now elapsed time,
remember that's the amount of time that passes on the clock or calendar,
in which you might perform that ideal time task.
A comparison again as we learned, a football game is 60 minutes in ideal time,
but about three or four hours in elapsed time.
It's very important to understand those differences here.
People tend to talk about the fuzzy world of elapsed time.
You cannot run a project and build your estimates starting with elapsed time. We must always start with ideal time.